Config imports (#2365)
travis-ci/docs-travis-ci-com: user/config-imports.md

---

> title: Importing shared build configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Importing Shared Build Configuration
```

layout: en
---

The main source of configuration for your build is the `.travis.yml` file
stored in your repository. You can import shared configuration snippets into
your `.travis.yml` or [API build request payload](https://docs.travis-ci.com/user/triggering-builds/),

> so you can update your build configuration in multiple repositories making only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to update your build configuration in multiple repositories making only
```

one change.

Imported configs can themselves include other configs, making this feature very
composable (cyclic imports will be skipped). You can import up to 25 build
configuration snippets in total.

> > BETA Configuration imports is currently in beta. Please leave feedback on the [Community forum](https://travis-ci.community/c/early-releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> BETA The Configuration Imports feature is currently in beta. You can leave your feedback on the [Community forum](https://travis-ci.community/c/early-releases).
```

The format of the `import` source is `<account>/<repository>:<path>@<ref>` in
which `<ref>` can be any valid Git reference, such as a commit sha, branch name,
or tag name.

> Public repositories can import sources from public repositories, but not
> private repositories. Private repositories can import sources from both
> public and private repositories. See [private repositories](#private-repositories)
> for more information.

Import a single source:

```yaml
import: travis-ci/build-configs:rubies.yml@main

# or

import:
  source: travis-ci/build-configs:rubies.yml@main
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

Import multiple sources:

```yaml
import:
  - travis-ci/build-configs:rubies.yml@adf1235
  - travis-ci/build-configs:other.yml@v1

# or

import:
  - source: travis-ci/build-configs:rubies.yml@adf1235
  - source: travis-ci/build-configs:other.yml@v1
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

By default, if the same keys are present in multiple imported snippets, they
are overwritten with the last configuration imported. But you can also specify
[deep_merge](#merge-mode).

## Importing configs from the same repository

When importing configurations stored in the same repository as your

> `travis.yml`, you can ommit the `<account>/<repository>` part:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`travis.yml`, you can commit the `<account>/<repository>` part:
```

```yaml
# local imports fetch the same git commit ref
import:
- one.yml
- path/to/other.yml
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

The path is relative to the repository's root.

## Importing specific versions of configs

> Configurations imported from a different repository, fetch the fetch the latest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For configurations imported from a different repository, fetch the latest
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure this has the same meaning. This has been Sam's (or Maria's?) wording. It is meant to say: 

> If you import a configuration from a different repository, the [version so-and-so] will be fetched/used/imported

Reviewer 2: now made this:

> For configurations imported from a different repository the latest version of
the default branch in the repository will be used by default.

and

> For configurations imported from the same repository the commit you are
currently building will be used by default. This is intended to help while you
are creating and testing the shared configurations.

version of the default branch in the repository.

> Configurations imported from the same repository, fetch the commit you are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For configurations imported from the same repository, fetch the commit you are
```

Reviewer 2: same as above

currently building by default. This is intended to help while you are creating
and testing the shared configurations.

You can specify the exact version of a config snippet by using any valid Git
reference:

```yaml
import:
- one.yml@production
- travis-ci/build-configs/other.yml@v1.0.0
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

## Merge modes

The merge mode controls how imported configs are being merged (combined) into
the importing config. A different merge mode can be specified for each imported
config source.

> There are these merge modes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These merge modes are possible:
```

Reviewer 2: Hmmmm ... `possible` reads odd to me here. they're not just "possible", but these are all the defined values. i'll think about this more.

* `merge`
* `deep_merge`
* `deep_merge_append` (default)
* `deep_merge_prepend`

The default merge mode is `deep_merge_append` when using the beta feature
[build config validation](/user/build-config-validation) that will be rolled

> out to all users over the next couple months, we encourage you to enable it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
out to all users over the next couple of months, we encourage you to enable it.
```

With this feature not being enabled the default merge mode is `merge`.

### Merge

The merge mode `merge` performs a shallow merge.

This means that root level sections (keys) defined in your `.travis.yml` will
overwrite root level sections (keys) that are also present in the imported
file.

```yaml
import:
- source: one.yml
  mode: merge # shallow merge
```

### Deep merge

The merge mode `deep_merge` recursively merges sections (keys) that hold maps (hashes),

> but ovewrites sequences (arrays).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but overwrites sequences (arrays).
```

```yaml
import:
- source: one.yml
  mode: deep_merge # deep merge
```
{: data-file=".travis.yml"}

### Deep merge append/prepend

The merge modes `deep_merge_append` and `deep_merge_prepend` recursively merge
sections (keys) that hold maps (hashes), and concatenates sequences (arrays) by
either appending or prepending to the sequence in the importing config.

```yaml
import:
- source: one.yml
  mode: deep_merge_append
- source: other.yml
  mode: deep_merge_prepend
```

## Private repositories

Before sharing configurations **from** a private repository you need to toggle

> the *Allow importing config files from this repository.* setting in *More

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the *Allow importing config files from this repository* setting in *More
```
